Draft guide for OCI Kubernetes (#1175)
micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides: guides/micronaut-k8s-oci/micronaut-k8s-oci.adoc

You will discover how the Micronaut framework eases Kubernetes integration and deployment to OKE.

external:micronaut-k8s/requirements.adoc[]
common:oracle-cloud-account-paid.adoc[]

NOTE: Your Oracle Cloud account must be a paid account or trial with credits available because there isn't currently a free-tier option for OKE.

* We'll use the OCI command line to authenticate ourselves. If you don't have it already, install the https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/cliinstall.htm[Oracle Cloud CLI] and run `oci setup config`.

common:jq[]

external:micronaut-k8s/create-app-external-guides.adoc[]

== Create Oracle Cloud Kubernetes Cluster

We will use Quick create cluster option on OKE to create Kubernetes Cluster. To start browse https://cloud.oracle.com/containers/clusters/quick[Quick Kubernetes Clusters (OKE)].

image::k8s-oci/create-cluster-wizard.png[]

Choose name for kubernetes cluster, we chose to name it `micronaut-k8s`.

{empty} +

image::k8s-oci/finish-creating-cluster.png[]

> Wait to finish all resources to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for all resources to be created.
```

{empty} +

image::k8s-oci/micronaut-k8s-cluster.png[]

> Copy `Cluster Id` you will need it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy `Cluster Id` (you will need it later).
```

> == Prepare and deploy microservices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Prepare and Deploy Microservices
```

> We will define some variables to make deploying process easier. In `OCI_USER_ID` store your user ocid, you can find it in your oci config file. In `OCI_TENANCY_NAME` store your tenancy name. In `OCI_USERNAME` we will store username in format <tenancy>/<username>. We can reuse `OCI_TENANCY_NAME` and only edit <username> part. Store your region key code in `OCI_REGION` for an example us-phoenix-1. In `OCI_CLUSTER_ID` put the Cluster Id that you copied before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will define some environment variables to make deploying process easier. In `OCI_USER_ID` store your user OCI, which you can find in your oci configuration file. In `OCI_TENANCY_NAME` store your tenancy name. In `OCI_USERNAME` store your username in the format <tenancy>/<username>. We can reuse `OCI_TENANCY_NAME` and only edit the <username> part. Store your region key code in `OCI_REGION` for an example "us-phoenix-1". In `OCI_CLUSTER_ID` store the Cluster Id that you copied earlier.
```

[source,bash]
----
export OCI_USER_ID="ocid1.user.oc1..aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"
export OCI_TENANCY_NAME="<tenancy-id>"
export OCI_USERNAME="$OCI_TENANCY_NAME/<username>"
export OCI_REGION="<region-key>"
export OCI_CLUSTER_ID="ocid1.cluster.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"
----

We have to create `AUTH_TOKEN` to be able to authenticate to Oracle Cloud Container Registry.

[source,bash]
----
export AUTH_TOKEN=$(oci iam auth-token create --user-id $OCI_USER_ID --description k8s-micronaut | jq -r '.data.token')
----

> Run next command to log in to `ocir.io` (Oracle Cloud Container Registry):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to log in to `ocir.io` (Oracle Cloud Container Registry):
```

[source,bash]
----
docker login $OCI_REGION.ocir.io -u $OCI_USERNAME -p $AUTH_TOKEN
----

=== Users microservice

external-template:micronaut-k8s-oci/k8s-microservice.adoc[arg0=users]

> === Orders microservice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Orders Microservice
```

external-template:micronaut-k8s-oci/k8s-microservice.adoc[arg0=orders]

> === API microservice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== API Microservice
```

external-template:micronaut-k8s-oci/k8s-microservice.adoc[arg0=api]

> === Deploy services to OKE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deploy Services to OKE
```

> Create folder for `kubectl` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a directory for `kubectl` configuration.
```

[source,bash]
----
mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
----

Generate `kubectl` configuration for authentication to OKE.

[source,bash]
----
oci ce cluster create-kubeconfig --cluster-id $OCI_CLUSTER_ID --file $HOME/.kube/config --region $OCI_REGION --token-version 2.0.0  --kube-endpoint PUBLIC_ENDPOINT
----

> Set `KUBECONFIG` to created config file. This variable is consumed by `kubectl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `KUBECONFIG` to the created config file. This variable is consumed by `kubectl`.
```

[source,bash]
----
export KUBECONFIG=$HOME/.kube/config
----

> Create `ocirsecret` secret that will be used for authentication to Oracle Cloud Container Registry. This is needed because OKE needs docker credentials to be able to pull microservices images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `ocirsecret` secret that will be used for authentication to Oracle Cloud Container Registry. This is needed because OKE needs credentials to be able to pull microservices images.
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry ocirsecret --docker-server=$OCI_REGION.ocir.io --docker-username=$OCI_USERNAME --docker-password=$AUTH_TOKEN
----

> Deploy `auth.yml` file that we created in https://cloud.oracle.com/containers/clusters/quick[Quick Kubernetes Clusters (OKE)] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy the _auth.yml_ file that we created in the https://cloud.oracle.com/containers/clusters/quick[Quick Kubernetes Clusters (OKE)] guide.
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f auth.yml
----

external-template:micronaut-k8s/k8s-deploy-service.adoc[arg0=users]

external-template:micronaut-k8s/k8s-deploy-service.adoc[arg0=orders]

external-template:micronaut-k8s/k8s-deploy-service.adoc[arg0=api]

== Test integration between applications deployed on OKE

> Run next command to check status of created pods and make sure that all have status "Running":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to check status of the pods and make sure that all of them have the status "Running":
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods
----

[source,text]
----
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
api-6fb4cd949f-kxxx8      1/1     Running   0          2d1h
orders-595887ddd6-6lzp4   1/1     Running   0          2d1h
users-df6f78cd7-lgnzx     1/1     Running   0          2d1h
----

> Run next command to check status of created services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to check the status of microservices:
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get services
----

[source,text]
----
NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP      PORT(S)             AGE
api          LoadBalancer   10.96.70.48    129.159.92.209   8080:31690/TCP      2d1h
kubernetes   ClusterIP      10.96.0.1      <none>           443/TCP,12250/TCP   7d23h
orders       NodePort       10.96.94.130   <none>           8080:31245/TCP      2d1h
users        NodePort       10.96.34.174   <none>           8080:30790/TCP      2d1h
----

> Run next command to get url of api service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the next command to retrieve the URL of the `api` microservice:
```
